Thousands of years ago, God's people gathered at the foot of Mount Sinai to receive spiritual
instruction from Jehovah. Since then, modern day gatherings, our conventions have played a
significant role in the history of pure worship. The same is true with our large special and
international conventions today. This report will highlight some of the aspects of planning for
special and international conventions. We'll see how the pandemic affected the plans that were
in place for special conventions in 2020 and what it took to reinstate this arrangement for 2024.
But have you ever wondered what's the difference between a special and an international convention?
In 2012, the governing body determined there'd be special conventions every year. What makes
these special is they're in different parts of the world, maybe 15 different countries.
And they're usually a larger venue, so there could be 20,000 in attendance.
And of that number, about 3,500 are invited from different countries around the world.
And then every five years or so, the governing body has approved international conventions.
Well, an international convention is generally bigger, maybe 30,000 or more people in attendance,
and about 5,000, I guess, are invited from different parts of the world. And the other thing about
an international convention you might remember from the past is that we have the opportunity in our
kingdom halls to contribute some monies, and that allows missionaries and those informed service
to be able to fly to the convention of their choice.
How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect plans that were in place for special conventions in 2020?
And what did it take to reinstate this arrangement for 2024?
The conventions were due to start in just a few months. We had 22,000 delegates that had booked flights
that were anxious to get to their locations. They would have to be informed that they
needed to do some rescheduling, perhaps get a refund. That there were hotel contracts,
there were venue contracts that had to be postponed. The Teaching Committee was very clear that
when our brothers reached out to the hotels, to the venues, to the cities,
the message was not that we were canceling this event, but the event was going to be postponed.
The Teaching Committee made this decision before COVID began to rage. So many of the vendors we
were working with didn't quite understand our position at first, but it was very clear that
Jehovah was behind the decision they made. Happily, these discussions went well.
Most of the venues returned our deposits, while some held the deposits for when we could resume
our conventions. At first, we thought we would simply move the eight special conventions from 2020
over to 2021. There were 15 special conventions tentatively planned for 2021, so we would have
23 special conventions that year. That's what we thought, but things got even more difficult
when we realized it wasn't just going to be a year delay, but rather the situation became
until further notice. The governing body has been very concerned with the safety of our brothers.
We want our conventions and our meetings to be spiritually up building, but also physically safe.
They came to the conclusion that through electronic means we could still have all of our
conventions, but there's still something missing with that kind of meeting, experiencing the
sights and sounds of a convention, hearing the laughter, the silence, the singing together,
to see people we haven't seen for a long time to see how Jehovah's enabled them to endure
to make spiritual progress. These are all wonderful blessings. The brothers felt it when
we couldn't have these things regularly for the friends. In October 2022, the governing body
directed that special conventions could resume in 2024. We were very excited, and then we realized
how much work we had to do in very little time. We had just several months to accomplish what
normally takes over 20 months to do, so we were so grateful that the host branches had done much
of the preliminary work well before our 2020. We originally planned to have eight conventions
in 2020. It was clear that the governing body wanted many more conventions to be held,
and so we reached out to the branches that were in the preliminary stages of planning the 2021
conventions to include them in the plans. We were able to put a list together and present it to
the teaching committee, and we were really excited to see the results coming back that they had
approved 15 locations for 2024. The wheels began turning for the 2024 special conventions.
But what's involved with planning for a special convention?
The committee is absolutely enthusiastic. They are delighted. They really want to do everything they
can to make this a great success so that we can welcome the delegates and so that it has a
strong impact in the ministry. Thus it becomes, we could say, the priority of the branch committee.
So regarding the organization of a special convention, it starts approximately two years before
the special convention takes place. Why two years? Well, because the governing body wants to ensure
that both the hotel accommodations and the special convention venue are suitable for a large number
of delegates. Most venues, their visitors are only there for a few hours, maybe for a concert
or for a sporting event, but for our brothers and sisters, they're at a convention for many hours.
So we are concerned about the learning environment. Is it a comfortable learning environment?
Places to eat are also important for the delegates, good transportation to and from the venue,
and a good airport that can support thousands of flights coming in every day from around the world.
Some countries it's known that they have terrorist activity, violence, particularly toward tourists,
but in addition you have to even look at the political situation because if there's been a change in
the administration, then there could be civil unrest. Can we arrange it for a time that would be
convenient for all, but also more economical for our brothers who are traveling to those
kinds of places? And what will be their experience when they get there? Will they have to deal with
the oppressive heat, excessive cold? The brothers are aware of it because they want to be hospitable.
They want to create an environment that's conducive for good wholesome association without distraction.
Once the Teaching Committee finalizes country locations, the work shifts into high gear.
There's many ways that we see Jehovah's direction in organizing these events. Our brothers know
how to do conventions. They've been doing conventions for decades. Organizing 150 buses,
organizing delegates to do activities, tour guides. This is something they need assistance with.
And so what we found is that Jehovah, by means of his spirit, is able to really
help these people rise up and be able to accomplish the tasks.
We couldn't get that work done without the brothers and sisters and those congregations that are
in the host branch because they're thrilled to be able to help out in whatever capacity they can.
And we really couldn't do the work without them. Any of you who have had the experience of
attending a special or international convention know the love and happiness of our brotherhood
is on full display for all to see. In Ukraine, we saw the unity of our local brothers and sisters
but we never saw it global until we came here to the convention.
And we saw our brothers and sisters from Asia, Africa, all around the earth hugging each other
and associating. We fought back tears but our hearts were so deeply touched.
To hear everyone that attended this international convention singing the songs in different languages
was amazing. What touched me the most is the hospitality. When I return back to Ethiopia,
I learned that I need to show hospitality. I need to open my heart wider to fill it with all this love.
It's full and it's overflowing. Thank you so much. I really appreciate this convention.
Jehovah, his people are here. We hope to welcome you as a delegate to a future special or international
convention. As hundreds of thousands of your brothers and sisters can tell you it's an experience
you will never forget.